Radiant Burlap Gibbon

medium

# Staked tokens will get stuck after claim

## Summary

The Andromeda protocol includes a vesting functionality allowing the owner to vest and stake tokens. However, if the owner attempts to claim vested tokens while still staked, the contract only transfers the unstaked amount, resetting the `batch.last_claimed_release_time`. This results in the staked tokens being locked until they are vested again, effectively extending the vesting period and causing a denial-of-service (DoS) scenario. The duration of this DoS is dependent on the `release_unit` time set in the `execute_create_batch()` function.

## Vulnerability Detail

The Andromeda protocol implements a vesting functionality. In the current implementation, the owner can vest tokens for himself, but this will be adapted to allow the owner to let tokens vest for other users. While those tokens are vesting, they can be staked by calling [`execute_delegate()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-andromeda-ado/blob/main/andromeda-core/contracts/finance/andromeda-vesting/src/contract.rs#L306), and the owner can withdraw their rewards by calling [`execute_withdraw_rewards()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-andromeda-ado/blob/bbbf73e5d1e4092ab42ce1f827e33759308d3786/andromeda-core/contracts/finance/andromeda-vesting/src/contract.rs#L422). 

The problem is that the owner/user can try to claim his tokens while they are staked. When the call occurs, the contract will take the minimum of its current balance and the tokens it should distribute. It will only transfer the minimum, not the actual amount.

```rust
let total_amount = AssetInfo::native(config.denom.to_owned())
	.query_balance(querier, env.contract.address.to_owned())?;

//Other calculations

let amount_to_send = amount_per_claim * Uint128::from(number_of_claims);
let amount_available = cmp::min(batch.amount - batch.amount_claimed, total_amount);

let amount_to_send = cmp::min(amount_to_send, amount_available);
```

This will result in the owner/user only receiving the tokens that are currently not staked and the `batch.last_claimed_release_time` being [reset](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-andromeda-ado/blob/bbbf73e5d1e4092ab42ce1f827e33759308d3786/andromeda-core/contracts/finance/andromeda-vesting/src/contract.rs#L483). As a result of this the users staked tokens (which he should be able to access) will be locked until they are vested once again, resulting in extending the intended vesting period.

###  Exemplary scenario

An exemplary scenario can describe the vulnerability more:

1. Vesting gets generated with a total of 1.2 billion tokens, of which 100 million are distributed monthly. (effectively vesting over one year)
2. The user decides to stake 900 million of these tokens
3. At the end of the year, the user calls `execute_claim()` to claim all tokens
4. The call passes, but the user only receives 300 million tokens as the rest are staked
5. `batch.last_claimed_release_time` is set to the current date
6. If the user unstakes his tokens now, he will still need to wait another nine months to be able to retrieve them fully

## Impact

If a user tries to claim his vesting while some of the tokens of that vesting are still staked, the staked tokens will become locked. The duration of this DOS is dependent on the time set in the `execute_create_batch()` function as `release_unit`. As vesting is usually done over multiple years, we can safely assume the DOS will be above seven days.

## Code Snippet

```rust
fn claim_batch(
    querier: &QuerierWrapper,
    env: &Env,
    batch: &mut Batch,
    config: &Config,
    number_of_claims: Option<u64>,
) -> Result<Uint128, ContractError> {
    let current_time = env.block.time.seconds();
    ensure!(
        batch.lockup_end <= current_time,
        ContractError::FundsAreLocked {}
    );
    let amount_per_claim = batch.release_amount.get_amount(batch.amount)?;

    let total_amount = AssetInfo::native(config.denom.to_owned())
        .query_balance(querier, env.contract.address.to_owned())?;

    let elapsed_time = current_time - batch.last_claimed_release_time;
    let num_available_claims = elapsed_time / batch.release_unit;

    let number_of_claims = cmp::min(
        number_of_claims.unwrap_or(num_available_claims),
        num_available_claims,
    );

    let amount_to_send = amount_per_claim * Uint128::from(number_of_claims);
    let amount_available = cmp::min(batch.amount - batch.amount_claimed, total_amount);

    let amount_to_send = cmp::min(amount_to_send, amount_available);

    // We dont want to update the last_claim_time when there are no funds to claim.
    if !amount_to_send.is_zero() {
        batch.amount_claimed += amount_to_send;
        batch.last_claimed_release_time += number_of_claims * batch.release_unit;
    }

    Ok(amount_to_send)
}
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

We recommend adapting the `claim_batch()` to revert if `amount_available < amount_to_send`. Alternatively, it could also check how many tokens are transferred and only move the `last_claimed_release_time` up by `ceil(transferred_tokens/batch.release_unit)`. This way, the user would, at max, incur a DOS of one `batch.release_unit`.