Festive Satin Dachshund

High

# Adversary can ensure delegation rewards are permanently lost in `validator-staking` due to unchanged withdrawal address and inability to directly withdraw funds

## Summary
Adversary can ensure delegation rewards are permanently lost in `validator-staking` due to unchanged withdrawal address and inability to directly withdraw funds.

## Vulnerability Detail
(Note that the links used are for Cosmos SDK 0.47.8 as per the Andromeda chain, but later versions follow a functionally identical flow)
Whenever a delegator's shares for a validator are modified (not created - e.g. adding funds to an existing delegation), the `BeforeDelegationSharesModified` hook is called which triggers the withdrawal of unclaimed rewards to the delegator's withdrawal address. 
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.8/x/staking/keeper/delegation.go#L649
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.47.8/x/distribution/keeper/hooks.go#L91 
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/4912bef7fb14ebe5da96ed96e8c47b609506cf49/x/distribution/keeper/delegation.go#L171-L172

This withdraw address defaults to the delegator's address if it is not set.
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/4912bef7fb14ebe5da96ed96e8c47b609506cf49/x/distribution/keeper/store.go#L11

Since anyone can stake in `andromeda-validator-staking`, anyone can trigger this withdrawal of rewards to the contract by staking a small amount (e.g. 1) if the withdrawal address hasn't been set yet (ie. `execute_claim` hasn't been called yet). If this occurs, the reward funds will be stuck in the contract since there is no way to withdraw them (there's no way to add tokens to `withdrawable_tokens` in the provided commit, so the withdraw feature is essentially non-functional). 

Furthermore, a malicious actor could front run calls to claim rewards with a stake message to prevent changing the withdrawal address since `execute_claim` will always revert since `accumulated_rewards` will be empty.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-andromeda-ado/blob/bbbf73e5d1e4092ab42ce1f827e33759308d3786/andromeda-core/contracts/finance/andromeda-validator-staking/src/contract.rs#L225-L228
```rust
    ensure!(
        !res.accumulated_rewards.is_empty(),
        ContractError::InvalidClaim {}
    );
```

Note that loss of rewards could also occur if the owner stakes or unstakes themselves before calling claiming rewards.

(As a sidenote, the reward withdraw behaviour on delegation change is not implemented in `cw-multi-test` - reward balances are updated, but the actual funds are not sent making it difficult to create a PoC)

## Impact
Permanent loss of delegation rewards since rewards can't be retrieved from the contract.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-andromeda-ado/blob/bbbf73e5d1e4092ab42ce1f827e33759308d3786/andromeda-core/contracts/finance/andromeda-validator-staking/src/contract.rs#L125-L135

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider setting the withdraw address on instantiation or before each stake (similar to the claim logic, though this would disable the contract if changing withdraw addresses is not enabled on the deployed chain).