Radiant Burlap Gibbon

high

# Un-bonding will lead to staked tokens getting stuck

## Summary

The `andromeda-validator-staking` module has a vulnerability related to handling tokens when a validator leaves the set either willingly or by jailing. When this occurs, all delegated tokens are automatically unbonded and eventually transferred back to the contract. However, these tokens cannot be claimed or restaked due to the absence of an `UndelegateResponseMsg`, causing them to be stuck in the contract. The impact is the loss of all staked tokens. 

## Vulnerability Detail

The `andromeda-validator-staking` module allows the owner and other users to stake tokens to a chosen validator. This can be done by calling the `execute_stake()` function. In return, a `StakingMsg::Delegate` message will be sent, and the users' tokens will be sent to a bonding pool. Their delegation to the validator will be tracked and can be redeemed later.

The problem is that the contract does not account for the validator, leaving the validator set by [jailing](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/modules/slashing#liveness-tracking)/[tombstoning](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/modules/slashing#tombstone-caps). In that case, all delegated tokens will be automatically un-bonded at the end of the block. This behavior is also described in the [documentation](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/433e3fd6d9cfec1a785df5ca3db691b9d3451a9c/x/staking/README.md?plain=1#L104) of the staking module.

```txt
* `Unbonding`: When a validator leaves the active set, either by choice or due to slashing, jailing or
  tombstoning, an unbonding of all their delegations begins. All delegations must then wait the UnbondingTime
  before their tokens are moved to their accounts from the `BondedPool`.
```

Once the tokens are un-bonded, they will be transferred to the delegator (`andromeda-validator-staking` contract) once the completion time has passed. The tokens cannot be claimed when transferred to the contract. This is due to the un-bonding not emitting an `UndelegateResponseMsg`, which would add the unstaking to the `UNSTAKING_QUEUE`. As a result, any calls to `execute_withdraw_fund()` will fail, and the tokens will become stuck in the contract. The owner can also not re-stake the tokens as the `execute_stake()` will only stake the funds sent with the call, not funds already in the contract.

## Impact

The issue results in all staked tokens being lost and stuck in the contract. As the `andromeda-validator-staking` contract does not implement a `migrate()` function, the funds can not be rescued by upgrading the contract.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-andromeda-ado/blob/bbbf73e5d1e4092ab42ce1f827e33759308d3786/andromeda-core/contracts/finance/andromeda-validator-staking/src/contract.rs#L315-L325
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

We recommend adding a function that allows the owner to stake funds already in the contract. It can be the same as the `execute_stake()` function; it should just use a `Coin` struct parameter provided by the user instead of the actual funds sent with the transaction. This way, the user can re-stake the funds to another delegator if the chosen delegator is un-bonded.
