Radiant Burlap Gibbon

medium

# Changes of the `UnbondingTime` are not accounted for

## Summary

The `andromeda-validator-staking` contract allows the owner to stake and unstake tokens, adding unstaking entries to an `UNSTAKING_QUEUE`. The unstaking process is dependent on the `UnbondingTime` parameter of the chain, which can be changed by governance. If the `UnbondingTime` is reduced while unstakings are already queued, it can result in a denial-of-service (DoS) situation where newer entries cannot be withdrawn until older entries expire. This could lead to tokens being stuck in the contract for a significant period.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `andromeda-validator-staking` contract implements a way to allow the owner of the contract to stake tokens. When the owner of the contract wants to unstake tokens again he can do this by calling the `execute_unstake()` function. The contract will then, on response from the staking module, add an entry to the `UNSTAKING_QUEUE`. 

```rust
pub fn on_validator_unstake(deps: DepsMut, msg: Reply) -> Result<Response, ContractError> {
    let attributes = &msg.result.unwrap().events[0].attributes;
    let mut fund = Coin::default();
    let mut payout_at = Timestamp::default();
    for attr in attributes {
        if attr.key == "amount" {
            fund = Coin::from_str(&attr.value).unwrap();
        } else if attr.key == "completion_time" {
            let completion_time = DateTime::parse_from_rfc3339(&attr.value).unwrap();
            let seconds = completion_time.timestamp() as u64;
            let nanos = completion_time.timestamp_subsec_nanos() as u64;
            payout_at = Timestamp::from_seconds(seconds);
            payout_at = payout_at.plus_nanos(nanos);
        }
    }
    UNSTAKING_QUEUE.push_back(deps.storage, &UnstakingTokens { fund, payout_at })?;

    Ok(Response::default())
}
```

Once the completion time has passed, the user can now call `execute_withdraw_fund()` to withdraw the funds. The function loops over the `UNSTAKING_QUEUE` and adds all unstakings until it fins one that has not expired. Afterwards all of the found expired unstakings are payed out to the user.

```rust
loop {
	match UNSTAKING_QUEUE.front(deps.storage).unwrap() {
		Some(UnstakingTokens { payout_at, .. }) if payout_at <= env.block.time => {
			if let Some(UnstakingTokens { fund, .. }) =
				UNSTAKING_QUEUE.pop_front(deps.storage)?
			{
				funds.push(fund)
			}
		}
		_ => break,
	}
}
```
The completion time that the loop is based upon is the UnbondingTime which is one of the [params](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.47/build/modules/staking#parameters) of the x/staking module. The governance can change this parameter at any time via a [`MsgUpdateParams`](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.47/build/modules/staking#msgupdateparams )message.

The issue occurs as the loop expects that for each item in it $item_n.completionTime >= item_{n-1}.completionTime$ . Unfortunately this is not the case if the governance reduces the `UnbondingTime`parameter while unstakings are already queued. In that case it can occur that $item_n.completionTime < item_{n-1}.completionTime$. This will result in $item_n$ being unable to withdraw until $item_{n-1}$ has expired. 

This DOS can be anwhere in the range from $0-UnbondingTime$. For most of the targeted chains the `UnbondingTime` is set to 21 days ( [Incetive, Archway and Terra](https://docs.andromedaprotocol.io/andromeda/platform-and-framework/deployed-contracts)). While it is not a reasonable scenario that the `UnbondingTime` will be reduced to 0, a deduction of 1-2 weeks is possible. The default value of the `UnbondingTime` is only [3 days](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.47/build/modules/staking#parameters), and some other chains also user 1-2 weeks shorter unbonding times:
- [Axelar](https://atomscan.com/axelar/parameters) - 7 days
- [Bitcanna](https://atomscan.com/bitcanna/parameters) - 14 days
- [Stargaze](https://atomscan.com/stargaze/parameters) - 14 days 

Based on this we can assume that a reduction by 1-2 weeks is a possible scenario. As the protocol will not only be deployed on andromeda's own chain but also on multiple other cosmos chains, the Andromeda Governance has no possibility to prevent such a change if it occurs.
## Impact

The issue results in tokens getting stuck in the contract until the messages before them expire. This can result in a DOS of 1-2 weeks depending on the change of the `UnbondingTime`.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-andromeda-ado/blob/bbbf73e5d1e4092ab42ce1f827e33759308d3786/andromeda-core/contracts/finance/andromeda-validator-staking/src/contract.rs#L256-L267

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

We recommend adapting the loop to not break if the `payout_at > env.block.time`. Instead in that case it should just do nothing and go on to the next element. 

```rust
loop {
	match UNSTAKING_QUEUE.front(deps.storage).unwrap() {
		Some(UnstakingTokens { payout_at, .. }) if payout_at <= env.block.time => {
			if let Some(UnstakingTokens { fund, .. }) =
				UNSTAKING_QUEUE.pop_front(deps.storage)?
			{
				funds.push(fund)
			}
		}
		_ => continue,
	}
}
```
